index.md, before:

# fundsr

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/StanTraykov/fundsr/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/StanTraykov/fundsr/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![fundsr status
badge](https://stantraykov.r-universe.dev/fundsr/badges/version)](https://stantraykov.r-universe.dev/fundsr)

fundsr imports fund NAVs and index levels and creates tracking
difference plots (CAGR and log-return). Plotting Xetra liquidity data
(XLM) is also supported.

## Installation

``` r
# install.packages("pak")

# Stable (latest release):
pak::pak("StanTraykov/fundsr@*release")

# Development:
pak::pak("StanTraykov/fundsr")
```

### From my r-universe (binary builds of latest release)

``` r
install.packages(
  "fundsr",
  repos = c("https://stantraykov.r-universe.dev",  "https://cloud.r-project.org")
)
```

## Usage

- [Importing Data and Computing
  Differences](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/articles/importing-and-computing-differences.html)
- [Simple Demo Using Real
  Data](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/articles/simple-demo-using-real-data.html)
- [Survival Curves for Financial
  Planning](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/articles/survival-curves-for-financial-planning.html)
- `scripts/examples` in the package directory (locate via
  `system.file("scripts/examples", package="fundsr")`)
  - `glob_funds.R` is an example workflow plotting global funds, but
    data needs to be downloaded separately
  - `all_funds.R` features many more funds
- [Reference](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/reference/index.html)

## Output

![combined plots](reference/figures/example-plot.png)

combined plots

## Disclaimer

This project is provided for informational and analytical purposes
(commentary and performance comparison). Charts and statistics shown are
derived measures (e.g., tracking differences/return differentials) and
are not intended to reproduce or redistribute underlying benchmark or
index datasets. Any third-party material, where present, is shown only
as necessary for identification and discussion and is provided as
low-resolution raster images (not high-resolution or vector graphics) to
prevent reuse as a substitute for source data. All trademarks and
registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
References to products, indices, and providers are for identification
purposes only and do not imply endorsement or affiliation. Use is
intended to fall within applicable copyright exceptions/limitations
(such as quotation for criticism/review), to the extent permitted by
law.

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ StanTraykov/fundsr@a23e8312d49b281b1b805d568562f344cbf1a3b1 🚀

index.md, after:

# fundsr

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/StanTraykov/fundsr/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/StanTraykov/fundsr/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![fundsr status
badge](https://stantraykov.r-universe.dev/fundsr/badges/version)](https://stantraykov.r-universe.dev/fundsr)

fundsr imports fund NAVs and index levels and creates tracking
difference plots (CAGR and log-return). Plotting Xetra liquidity data
(XLM) is also supported.

## Installation

``` r
# install.packages("pak")

# Stable (latest release):
pak::pak("StanTraykov/fundsr@*release")

# Development:
pak::pak("StanTraykov/fundsr")
```

### From my r-universe (binary builds of latest release)

``` r
install.packages(
  "fundsr",
  repos = c("https://stantraykov.r-universe.dev",  "https://cloud.r-project.org")
)
```

## Overview

fundsr is a tool for the DIY investor. It’s not a data provider—you need
to download ETF NAVs and index levels yourself. See the *Getting data*
section in [the project’s
wiki](https://github.com/StanTraykov/fundsr/wiki) for more info. The
package also supports plotting survival curves.

## Usage

- [Importing Data and Computing
  Differences](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/articles/importing-and-computing-differences.html)
- [Simple Demo Using Real
  Data](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/articles/simple-demo-using-real-data.html)
- [Survival Curves for Financial
  Planning](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/articles/survival-curves-for-financial-planning.html)
- `scripts/examples` in the package directory (locate via
  `system.file("scripts/examples", package="fundsr")`)
  - `glob_funds.R` is an example workflow plotting global funds, but
    data needs to be downloaded separately
  - `all_funds.R` features many more funds
- [Options](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/reference/fundsr_options.html)
- [Reference](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/reference/index.html)

## Output

![combined plots](reference/figures/example-plot.png)

combined plots

## Disclaimer

This project is provided for informational and analytical purposes
(commentary and performance comparison). Charts and statistics shown are
derived measures (e.g., tracking differences/return differentials) and
are not intended to reproduce or redistribute underlying benchmark or
index datasets. Any third-party material, where present, is shown only
as necessary for identification and discussion and is provided as
low-resolution raster images (not high-resolution or vector graphics) to
prevent reuse as a substitute for source data. All trademarks and
registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
References to products, indices, and providers are for identification
purposes only and do not imply endorsement or affiliation. Use is
intended to fall within applicable copyright exceptions/limitations
(such as quotation for criticism/review), to the extent permitted by
law.
