articles/simple-demo-using-real-data.md, before:

# Simple Demo Using Real Data

This vignette demonstrates a simple workflow using downloaded fund
files. For a more comprehensive introduciton using example data files,
see
[`vignette("importing-and-computing-differences")`](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/articles/importing-and-computing-differences.md).
More complex workflows are shipped (without data) under
`scripts/examples` in the fundsr directory (start with `glob_funds.R` or
`all_funds.R`). The installation path can be discovered via
`system.file("scripts/examples", package="fundsr")`.

## Setup

``` r
library(dplyr)
library(ggplot2)
library(lubridate)

library(fundsr)
```

Set up directories.

``` r
dirs <- c(
    data = file.path("data", "funds"),
    xlm = file.path("data", "xlm"),
    out = "output"
)
for (d in dirs) {
    dir.create(d, recursive = TRUE)
}
```

Populate the XLM directory with some monthly XLM reports.

``` r
base_url <- "https://www.cashmarket.deutsche-boerse.com/resource/blob/"
file_suffix <- "-ETF-ETP-Statistic.xlsx"
blob_paths <- c(
  "4844258/91ce589f5309cbbd1ad0c92b3e6cdbda/data/20251130",
  "4795286/394c4451af562507f9def3f39da62242/data/20251031",
  "4725636/2d62a1677b537d996aefc45df3ff21d3/data/20250930",
  "4674370/0de847380722e8e87bc821cb5313ba41/data/20250831"
)
xlm_urls <- paste0(base_url, blob_paths, file_suffix)
for (url in xlm_urls) {
    fname <- basename(url)
    dest_path <- file.path(dirs[["xlm"]], fname)
    if (!file.exists(dest_path)) {
        download.file(url, destfile = dest_path, mode = "wb", quiet = TRUE)
        Sys.sleep(stats::runif(1, 0.5, 1.0))
    }
}
```

Import all XLM files into a tibble.

``` r
if (!exists("xlm_data")) {
    xlm_data <- read_xlm_directory(dirs[["xlm"]])
}
#> XLM read: August 2025
#> XLM read: September 2025
#> XLM read: October 2025
#> XLM read: November 2025
```

Set package options.

``` r
fundsr_options(
    data_dir = dirs[["data"]],
    out_dir = dirs[["out"]],
    # internal_png = TRUE, # output PNGs without Inkscape
    # inkscape = "path/to/inkscape" # set only if auto-detection fails
)

# Helper to add urls to option fundsr.fund_urls
add_fund_urls(c(
    IUSQ = "https://www.ishares.com/uk/individual/en/products/251850/ishares-msci-acwi-ucits-etf/1535604580409.ajax?fileType=xls&fileName=iShares-MSCI-ACWI-UCITS-ETF-USD-Acc_fund&dataType=fund",
    SPYY = "https://www.ssga.com/ie/en_gb/institutional/library-content/products/fund-data/etfs/emea/navhist-emea-en-spyy-gy.xlsx"
))
```

## Download and import

Populate funds directory (download URLs listed in option
`fundsr.fund_urls`).

``` r
download_fund_data() # downloads as SPYY.xlsx, IUSQ.xls
#> Downloading 'IUSQ'
#> Downloading 'SPYY'
```

Register data loader calling vendor-specific wrappers around
[`load_fund()`](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/reference/load_fund.md).

``` r
add_data_loader(function() {
    # this loads the downloaded SPYY.xlsx
    spdr("SPYY", benchmark = "ACWI")
    # loads IUSQ.xls, also retrieves ACWI (net) from the file
    ishs("IUSQ", benchmark = "ACWI", retrieve_benchmark = T)
})
```

Get fund and index data into a master table.

``` r
series <- build_all_series() %>%
    filter(date >= as_date("2012-12-29"))
#> *** Loading: spyy
#> Reading Excel file 'data/funds/SPYY.xlsx'...
#> readxl succeeded. Returning data.
#> 3732 rows x 2 cols (sheet='1', date col ='^Date').
#> *** Loading: iusq
#> Reading Excel file 'data/funds/IUSQ.xls'...
#> readxl failed. Attempting parse as Excel 2003 XML...
#> 3625 rows x 3 cols (sheet='Historical', date col ='^As Of').
#> Joining: spyy, iusq
```

Check contents.

``` r
series %>% filter(date >= as_date("2015-04-03"))
#> # A tibble: 2,762 × 4
#>    date        spyy  iusq  ACWI
#>    <date>     <dbl> <dbl> <dbl>
#>  1 2015-04-06   NA   38.2  153.
#>  2 2015-04-07  101.  38.5  154.
#>  3 2015-04-08  101.  38.6  154.
#>  4 2015-04-09  101.  38.7  154.
#>  5 2015-04-10  102.  38.9  155.
#>  6 2015-04-13  102.  38.8  155.
#>  7 2015-04-14  102.  38.9  155.
#>  8 2015-04-15  102.  39.0  156.
#>  9 2015-04-16  102.  39.1  156.
#> 10 2015-04-17  101.  38.7  155.
#> # ℹ 2,752 more rows
get_fund_index_map()
#>   spyy   iusq 
#> "ACWI" "ACWI"
```

## Compute

Calculate CAGR and log-return differences with a 365-day rolling window.

``` r
nd <- 365
diffs <- roll_diffs(series, nd, get_fund_index_map())
#> Roll diffs spyy -> ACWI
#> Roll diffs iusq -> ACWI
```

``` r
diffs$cagr %>% slice_tail(n = 3)
#>         date        spyy         iusq
#> 1 2026-01-05 0.004708281 0.0009037957
#> 2 2026-01-06 0.004511927 0.0007926735
#> 3 2026-01-07          NA           NA
diffs$log %>% slice_tail(n = 3)
#>         date        spyy         iusq
#> 1 2026-01-05 0.003822482 0.0007348929
#> 2 2026-01-06 0.003658349 0.0006436832
#> 3 2026-01-07          NA           NA
```

## Plot specifications

``` r
no_filter <- NULL
zoom_filter <- function(x) {x %>% filter(date >= as_date("2022-01-01"))}
acwi_funds <- c("spyy", "iusq")
gg_par <- scale_color_manual(values = c("iusq" = "red", "spyy" = "blue"),
                             labels = toupper)

plot_spec <- tribble(
    ~plot_id, ~title, ~data_filter,
    ~gg_params, ~width,  ~height,
    ~funds,

    "ACWI", "SPYY & IUSQ", no_filter,
    gg_par, 14, 9,
    acwi_funds,

    "ACWIz",
    c(en = "SPYY & IUSQ: recent years",
      bg = "SPYY & IUSQ: последни години"),
    zoom_filter,
    gg_par, 14, 9,
    acwi_funds
)
```

## Plot

Run the plots! This outputs SVG files and queues plots for optional PNG
export using Inkscape (see blow). It may also output lower-quality PNGs
(if option `fundsr.internal_png` is `TRUE`).

``` r
p <- run_plots(diffs, nd, plot_spec, xlm_data)
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365d rolling CAGR differences vs net benchmark: SPYY & IUSQ
#> plot_xlms: spyy, iusq
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365d rolling log-return differences vs net benchmark: SPYY & IUSQ
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365d rolling CAGR differences vs net benchmark: SPYY & IUSQ: recent years
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365d rolling log-return differences vs net benchmark: SPYY & IUSQ: recent years
```

## Output

``` r
p[["ACWI"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-plots-1.png)

``` r
p[["ACWI_L"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-plots-2.png)

``` r
p[["ACWIz_L"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-plots-3.png)

``` r
p[["xlm_ACWI"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-plots-4.png)

Corresponding SVG files should be in the `output` directory.

## Plot in another language

``` r
Sys.setlocale("LC_MESSAGES", "bg_BG.UTF-8") # needed on some systems
#> [1] "bg_BG.UTF-8"
Sys.setLanguage("bg")
plot_spec_bg <- plot_spec %>%
    mutate(plot_id = paste0(plot_id, "_bg"))
bg_p <- run_plots(diffs, nd, plot_spec_bg, xlm_data)
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365-дневни плъзгащи се CAGR разлики спрямо нетен индекс: SPYY & IUSQ
#> plot_xlms: spyy, iusq
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365-дневни плъзгащи се разлики в log доходност спрямо нетен индекс: SPYY & IUSQ
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365-дневни плъзгащи се CAGR разлики спрямо нетен индекс: SPYY & IUSQ: последни години
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365-дневни плъзгащи се разлики в log доходност спрямо нетен индекс: SPYY & IUSQ: последни години
bg_p[["ACWIz_bg_L"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-bg-plots-1.png)

``` r
bg_p[["xlm_ACWI_bg"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-bg-plots-2.png)

## Optional high-quality PNG export

Process queued files via Inkscape (converting SVG to PNG).

``` r
export_pngs()
#> Executing "C:/Program Files/Inkscape/bin/inkscape.exe" --actions="export-background:white;file-open:output/ACWI.svg;export-filename:output/ACWI.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/xlm_ACWI.svg;export-filename:output/xlm_ACWI.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWI_L.svg;export-filename:output/ACWI_L.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWIz.svg;export-filename:output/ACWIz.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWIz_L.svg;export-filename:output/ACWIz_L.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWI_bg.svg;export-filename:output/ACWI_bg.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/xlm_ACWI_bg.svg;export-filename:output/xlm_ACWI_bg.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWI_bg_L.svg;export-filename:output/ACWI_bg_L.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWIz_bg.svg;export-filename:output/ACWIz_bg.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWIz_bg_L.svg;export-filename:output/ACWIz_bg_L.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close"
#> [1] 0
```

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ StanTraykov/fundsr@b04db5ab57bf6742a3616ea86ad84861707a40fa 🚀

articles/simple-demo-using-real-data.md, after:

# Simple Demo Using Real Data

This vignette demonstrates a simple workflow using downloaded fund
files. For a comprehensive introduction using example data files, see
[`vignette("importing-and-computing-differences")`](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/articles/importing-and-computing-differences.md).
For information on how to get data from fund and index providers, see
[fundsr’s GitHub wiki](https://github.com/StanTraykov/fundsr/wiki). More
complex workflows are shipped without data under `scripts/examples` in
the package directory (start with `glob_funds.R` or `all_funds.R`). The
installation path can be discovered via
`system.file("scripts/examples", package = "fundsr")`.

## Setup

``` r
library(dplyr)
library(ggplot2)
library(lubridate)

library(fundsr)
```

Set up directories.

``` r
dirs <- c(
    data = file.path("data", "funds"),
    xlm = file.path("data", "xlm"),
    out = "output"
)
for (d in dirs) {
    dir.create(d, recursive = TRUE)
}
```

Populate the XLM directory with some monthly XLM reports.

``` r
base_url <- "https://www.cashmarket.deutsche-boerse.com/resource/blob/"
file_suffix <- "-ETF-ETP-Statistic.xlsx"
blob_paths <- c(
  "4844258/91ce589f5309cbbd1ad0c92b3e6cdbda/data/20251130",
  "4795286/394c4451af562507f9def3f39da62242/data/20251031",
  "4725636/2d62a1677b537d996aefc45df3ff21d3/data/20250930",
  "4674370/0de847380722e8e87bc821cb5313ba41/data/20250831"
)
xlm_urls <- paste0(base_url, blob_paths, file_suffix)
for (url in xlm_urls) {
    fname <- basename(url)
    dest_path <- file.path(dirs[["xlm"]], fname)
    if (!file.exists(dest_path)) {
        download.file(url, destfile = dest_path, mode = "wb", quiet = TRUE)
        Sys.sleep(stats::runif(1, 0.5, 1.0))
    }
}
```

Import all XLM files into a tibble.

``` r
if (!exists("xlm_data")) {
    xlm_data <- read_xlm_directory(dirs[["xlm"]])
}
#> XLM read: August 2025
#> XLM read: September 2025
#> XLM read: October 2025
#> XLM read: November 2025
```

Set package options.

``` r
fundsr_options(
    data_dir = dirs[["data"]],
    out_dir = dirs[["out"]],
    # internal_png = TRUE, # output PNGs without Inkscape
    # inkscape = "path/to/inkscape" # set only if auto-detection fails
)

# Helper to add urls to option fundsr.fund_urls
add_fund_urls(c(
    IUSQ = "https://www.ishares.com/uk/individual/en/products/251850/ishares-msci-acwi-ucits-etf/1535604580409.ajax?fileType=xls&fileName=iShares-MSCI-ACWI-UCITS-ETF-USD-Acc_fund&dataType=fund",
    SPYY = "https://www.ssga.com/ie/en_gb/institutional/library-content/products/fund-data/etfs/emea/navhist-emea-en-spyy-gy.xlsx"
))
```

## Download and import

Populate funds directory (download URLs listed in option
`fundsr.fund_urls`).

``` r
download_fund_data() # downloads as SPYY.xlsx, IUSQ.xls
#> Downloading 'IUSQ'
#> Downloading 'SPYY'
```

Register data loader calling vendor-specific wrappers around
[`load_fund()`](https://stantraykov.github.io/fundsr/reference/load_fund.md).

``` r
add_data_loader(function() {
    # this loads the downloaded SPYY.xlsx
    spdr("SPYY", benchmark = "ACWI")
    # loads IUSQ.xls, also retrieves ACWI (net) from the file
    ishs("IUSQ", benchmark = "ACWI", retrieve_benchmark = T)
})
```

Get fund and index data into a master table.

``` r
series <- build_all_series() %>%
    filter(date >= as_date("2012-12-29"))
#> *** Loading: spyy
#> Reading Excel file 'data/funds/SPYY.xlsx'...
#> readxl succeeded. Returning data.
#> 3733 rows x 2 cols (sheet='1', date col ='^Date').
#> *** Loading: iusq
#> Reading Excel file 'data/funds/IUSQ.xls'...
#> readxl failed. Attempting parse as Excel 2003 XML...
#> 3627 rows x 3 cols (sheet='Historical', date col ='^As Of').
#> Joining: spyy, iusq
```

Check contents.

``` r
series %>% filter(date >= as_date("2015-04-03"))
#> # A tibble: 2,763 × 4
#>    date        spyy  iusq  ACWI
#>    <date>     <dbl> <dbl> <dbl>
#>  1 2015-04-06   NA   38.2  153.
#>  2 2015-04-07  101.  38.5  154.
#>  3 2015-04-08  101.  38.6  154.
#>  4 2015-04-09  101.  38.7  154.
#>  5 2015-04-10  102.  38.9  155.
#>  6 2015-04-13  102.  38.8  155.
#>  7 2015-04-14  102.  38.9  155.
#>  8 2015-04-15  102.  39.0  156.
#>  9 2015-04-16  102.  39.1  156.
#> 10 2015-04-17  101.  38.7  155.
#> # ℹ 2,753 more rows
get_fund_index_map()
#>   spyy   iusq 
#> "ACWI" "ACWI"
```

## Compute

Calculate CAGR and log-return differences with a 365-day rolling window.

``` r
nd <- 365
diffs <- roll_diffs(series, nd, get_fund_index_map())
#> Roll diffs spyy -> ACWI
#> Roll diffs iusq -> ACWI
```

``` r
diffs$cagr %>% slice_tail(n = 3)
#>         date        spyy         iusq
#> 1 2026-01-06 0.004511927 0.0007926735
#> 2 2026-01-07 0.004357993 0.0007516283
#> 3 2026-01-08 0.004395124 0.0007814405
diffs$log %>% slice_tail(n = 3)
#>         date        spyy         iusq
#> 1 2026-01-06 0.003658349 0.0006436832
#> 2 2026-01-07 0.003521613 0.0006082626
#> 3 2026-01-08 0.003554415 0.0006328890
```

## Plot specifications

``` r
no_filter <- NULL
zoom_filter <- function(x) {x %>% filter(date >= as_date("2022-01-01"))}
acwi_funds <- c("spyy", "iusq")
gg_par <- scale_color_manual(values = c("iusq" = "red", "spyy" = "blue"),
                             labels = toupper)

plot_spec <- tribble(
    ~plot_id, ~title, ~data_filter,
    ~gg_params, ~width,  ~height,
    ~funds,

    "ACWI", "SPYY & IUSQ", no_filter,
    gg_par, 14, 9,
    acwi_funds,

    "ACWIz",
    c(en = "SPYY & IUSQ: recent years",
      bg = "SPYY & IUSQ: последни години"),
    zoom_filter,
    gg_par, 14, 9,
    acwi_funds
)
```

## Plot

Run the plots! This outputs SVG files and queues plots for optional PNG
export using Inkscape (see blow). It may also output lower-quality PNGs
(if option `fundsr.internal_png` is `TRUE`).

``` r
p <- run_plots(diffs, nd, plot_spec, xlm_data)
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365d rolling CAGR differences vs net benchmark: SPYY & IUSQ
#> plot_xlms: spyy, iusq
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365d rolling log-return differences vs net benchmark: SPYY & IUSQ
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365d rolling CAGR differences vs net benchmark: SPYY & IUSQ: recent years
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365d rolling log-return differences vs net benchmark: SPYY & IUSQ: recent years
```

## Output

``` r
p[["ACWI"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-plots-1.png)

``` r
p[["ACWI_L"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-plots-2.png)

``` r
p[["ACWIz_L"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-plots-3.png)

``` r
p[["xlm_ACWI"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-plots-4.png)

Corresponding SVG files should be in the `output` directory.

## Plot in another language

``` r
Sys.setlocale("LC_MESSAGES", "bg_BG.UTF-8") # needed on some systems
#> [1] "bg_BG.UTF-8"
Sys.setLanguage("bg")
plot_spec_bg <- plot_spec %>%
    mutate(plot_id = paste0(plot_id, "_bg"))
bg_p <- run_plots(diffs, nd, plot_spec_bg, xlm_data)
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365-дневни плъзгащи се CAGR разлики спрямо нетен индекс: SPYY & IUSQ
#> plot_xlms: spyy, iusq
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365-дневни плъзгащи се разлики в log доходност спрямо нетен индекс: SPYY & IUSQ
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365-дневни плъзгащи се CAGR разлики спрямо нетен индекс: SPYY & IUSQ: последни години
#> plot_roll_diffs: 365-дневни плъзгащи се разлики в log доходност спрямо нетен индекс: SPYY & IUSQ: последни години
bg_p[["ACWIz_bg_L"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-bg-plots-1.png)

``` r
bg_p[["xlm_ACWI_bg"]]
```

![](simple-demo-using-real-data_files/figure-html/acwi-bg-plots-2.png)

## Optional high-quality PNG export

Process queued files via Inkscape (converting SVG to PNG).

``` r
export_pngs()
#> Executing "C:/Program Files/Inkscape/bin/inkscape.exe" --actions="export-background:white;file-open:output/ACWI.svg;export-filename:output/ACWI.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/xlm_ACWI.svg;export-filename:output/xlm_ACWI.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWI_L.svg;export-filename:output/ACWI_L.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWIz.svg;export-filename:output/ACWIz.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWIz_L.svg;export-filename:output/ACWIz_L.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWI_bg.svg;export-filename:output/ACWI_bg.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/xlm_ACWI_bg.svg;export-filename:output/xlm_ACWI_bg.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWI_bg_L.svg;export-filename:output/ACWI_bg_L.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWIz_bg.svg;export-filename:output/ACWIz_bg.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close;file-open:output/ACWIz_bg_L.svg;export-filename:output/ACWIz_bg_L.png;export-width:1300;export-do;file-close"
#> [1] 0
```
